We're at the very very early stage of
the intelligence big bang. Being a
multilanet species greatly increases the
probable lifespan of civilization or
consciousness or intelligence both
biological and digital. I think we're
quite close to digital super
intelligence. If it doesn't happen this
year, next year for sure.
[Music]
Please give it up for Elon Musk.
[Applause]
Elon, welcome to AI Startup School.
We're just really, really blessed to
have your presence here today. Uh,
thanks for having me. So,
uh, from SpaceX, Tesla, Neurolink, XAI,
and more. Was there ever a moment in
your life uh before all this where you
felt I have to build something great?
And what flipped that switch for you? Uh
well, I didn't originally think I would
build something great. Um I wanted to
try to build something useful, but uh I
didn't think I would build anything
particularly great. If you said
probabilistically seemed unlikely, uh
but I wanted to at least try. So you're
talking to uh a room full of people who
are all technical engineers uh often you
know some of the most eminent AI
researchers coming up in the game.
Okay. I
uh I think we should I think that I I
like the term engineer better than
researcher. I mean I suppose if if
there's some fundamental
algorithmic breakthrough it's it's a
research but otherwise it's engineering.
Maybe let's start way back. I mean when
you were this is a room full of 18 to 25
year olds. Um it skews younger because
the founder set is younger and younger.
Uh can you put yourself back into their
shoes when you know you were 18 19 you
know learning to code uh even coming up
with a first idea for zip 2. What was
that like for you? Yeah, back in 95 I I
was faced with a choice of either do uh
you know grad studies PhD at Stanford uh
in in material science actually working
on ultra capacitors for potential use in
electric vehicles essentially trying to
solve the range problem for electric
vehicles uh or
uh
try to do something in this thing that
most people have never heard of called
the internet and um I talked to my
professor who was Bill Nyx in the
material science from and uh said like
um can I like defer for a quarter uh
because this will probably fail and then
I'll need to come back to college and um
and then he said this is probably the
last conversation we'll have uh and he
was right
um so but I I thought things would most
likely fail not that they would most
likely succeed um and um and then in 95
I wrote uh
basically
I think the first or close to the first
maps directions uh internet white pages
and yellow pages on the internet. Um I
just wrote I just wrote that personally
and I didn't even use a web server. I
just read the port directly because I um
couldn't afford uh and I couldn't
couldn't afford a T1. Uh
original office was on Sherman Avenue in
Palo Alto. Uh there was like an ISP on
the floor below. So I drilled a drilled
a hole through the floor and just uh ran
a land cable directly to the ISP. Um and
um you know uh my brother joined me and
another co-founder Greg Curry who passed
away and um
we at the time we couldn't even afford a
a place to stay so we just the the
office was 500 bucks a month so we just
slept in the office and and then
showered at the YMCA on Paige Millino.
Um
and uh
yeah and we I guess we ended up doing a
little bit of a useful company uh Zip 2
in the beginning. Um and um
we we we did build a lot of uh really
really good software technology but we
were somewhat captured by the legacy
media companies and that nighter New
York Times host whatnot were investors
and uh customers and and also on the
board. Uh so they ke they they kept
wanting to use our software in ways that
made no sense. Um, so I I wanted to go
direct to consumers. Anyway, long story
dwelling too much on Z2, but the I
really just wanted to do something
useful on the internet. Um, as because I
had like two choices like do a do a PhD
and watch people build the internet or
help build the internet in some small
way. And I was like, well, I guess I can
always try and fail and then go back to
grad studies. Um, and uh, anyway, that
ended up being like reasonably
successful. sold for like $300 million,
which is a lot at the time. These days,
that's like I think the minimum impulse
bid for an AI startup is like a billion
dollars. Um, it's like a
there's so many freaking unicorns, it's
like a herd of unicorns at this point,
you know, unicorn is a billion dollar
situation. Um, there's been inflation
since, so quite a bit more money
actually. Yeah. I mean, like 90 1995 you
could probably buy a burger for a
nickel. Well, not quite, but I mean,
yeah, there has been a lot of inflation.
Um, but uh I mean, the hype level on AI
is is is pretty intense as you've seen.
Um, you know, you see, uh, companies
that are, I don't know, less than a year
old getting sometimes billion dollar or
multi-billion dollar valuations. Um,
which I guess could could pan out and
probably will pan out in some cases. Um
but uh it is eye watering to see some of
these valuations.
Um yeah, what do you think? I mean,
well, I'm pretty bullish, personally.
I'm I'm pretty bullish, honestly. So, I
I think the people in this room are
going to create a lot of the value that
um you know, a billion people in the
world should be using this stuff. And uh
we're not even we're scratching the
surface of it. I love the internet story
in that uh even back then you know you
are a lot like the people in this room
back then in that you know this the
heads of all the the CEOs of all the
legacy media companies look to you as
the person who understood the internet
and a lot of the world the you know the
corporate world like the world at large
that does not understand what's
happening with AI they're going to look
to the people in this room uh for
exactly that it sounds like you know
what are some of the tangible lessons it
Sounds like one of them is don't give up
board control or be careful about have a
really good lawyer.
Uh I guess for the first my first
startup the the big the the really the
mistake was having too much uh
shareholder and board control from
legacy media companies who then
necessarily see things through the lens
of legacy media and uh that they'll kind
of make you do things that seem sensible
to them but but aren't really don't make
sense with the new technology. Um I know
I should point out that I that I um I
didn't actually at first intend to start
a company. I like I tried to get a job
at Netscape. Um I sent my resume into
Netscape and Mark Andre knows about
this. Um and uh but I don't think he
ever saw my resume and then nobody
responded. So uh and then I tried
hanging out in the lobby of Netscape to
see if I could like bump into someone,
but I was like too shy to talk to
anyone. So I'm like, man, this is
ridiculous. So I'll just write software
myself and see how it goes. So, it
wasn't actually from the standpoint of
like I want to start a company. I just
want to be part of building, you know,
the internet uh in some way. Um and um
and since I couldn't get a job at an
internet company, I had to start a
internet company. Anyway, the Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, from an AI will so
profoundly change the future.
It's difficult to fathom um how much but
you know the the the economy assu
assuming we don't things don't go ary
and and like AI doesn't kill us all and
itself um then you you'll see ultimately
an economy that is
not not 10 times more than the current
economy ultimately like if we become say
or whatever our future
machine descendants or but mostly
machine descend descendants become like
a a cottage of scale 2 civilization or
beyond. We're talking about
an economy that is thousands of times
maybe millions of times bigger than the
economy today. So, um,
yeah, I mean, I I I I did sort of feel a
bit like, you know, when I was in DC,
taking a lot of flack for like getting
rid of waste and fraud, which was an
interesting side quest, uh, as side
quests go. Um, but, uh, got to get back
to the main quest. Yeah, I got to get
back to the main quest here. Um, so back
to the main quest. Um
uh so but I did feel you know a little
bit like there's you know it's like
fixing the government is kind of like
there's like say the beach is dirty and
there's like some needles and feces and
like trash and you want to clean up the
beach but then there's also this like
thousand foot wall of water which is a
tsunami of AI like and uh how much does
cleaning the beach really matter if you
got a thousand foot tsunami about to
hit? Not that much.
Oh, we're glad you're back on the main
quest. It's very important. Yeah, back
to the main quest. Um, building
technology, which is uh what I like
doing. Um, it's just so much noise. Like
this the signal to noise ratio in
politics is terrible. So, um I mean, I
live in San Francisco, so you don't need
to tell me twice. Yeah, DC's like, you
know, kind of I guess it's all politics
in DC, but um the if you're trying to
build a rocket or cars or you're trying
to have software that compiles and runs
reliably, then you have to be uh
maximally truth seeeking or your
software or your hardware won't work. Um
like there's not you can't fool ma like
math and physics are rigorous judges.
Um, so I'm used to being in like a
maximally truth seeeking environment and
and that's definitely not politics. Um,
so anyway, I'm I'm good glad to be back
in, you know, technology. I guess I'm
kind of curious going back to the Zip 2
moment. You had hundreds of millions of
dollars or you had an exit of worth
hundreds of millions of dollars. I mean,
I I got $20 million, right? Okay. So,
you solved the money problem at least.
Um, and you basically took it and you
rolled you kept rolling with X.com,
which became PayPal and Conffinity.
Uh, yes. I kept the chips on the table.
Yeah. So, not everyone does that. A lot
of the people in this room will have to
make that decision actually. What drove
you to jump back into the ring?
Well, I I think I I felt for with with
Zip 2, we'd built like incredible
technology, but it never really got uh
used. um you know I think at least from
my perspective we had better technology
than say Yahoo or anyone else but it was
constrained by our customers um and uh
so I wanted to do something that where
okay we wouldn't be constrained by our
customers go direct to consumer um and
that's what ended up being like x.com
PayPal uh essentially x.com merging with
confinity which together created PayPal
and and then uh that that actually the
the sort of PayPal dice Spora uh has it
might have created more companies than
so more companies than probably any
anything in the 21st century, you know,
uh so so many talented people were at
the combination of of Confinity and and
X.com. Um so I I just wanted to like I
felt like uh we we kind of got our wings
clipped somewhat with Zip 2 and it's
like okay, what if our wings aren't
clipped and we go direct to consumer and
that's that's what um PayPal ended up
being. Um but yeah, with
I got that like $20 million check for um
for my share of Zip 2. At the time I was
living with in a house with four
housemates. Um and um had like I don't
know 10 grand in the bank and then the
this check arrives in the mail of all
places and in the mail um and then then
my bank balance went from 10,000 to 20
million in 10,000. um you're like,
"Well, okay." Um still have to pay taxes
on that and all, but uh then I ended up
putting um almost all of that into uh
x.com and as you said, like just kind of
keeping almost all the chips on the
table. Um
and um
yeah, and then after
PayPal, I was like, well, I I was kind
of curious as to why we had not sent
anyone to Mars. Uh, and I went on the
went on the NASA website to find out
when we're sending people to Mars, and
there was no date. I thought maybe it
was just hard to find on the website.
Uh, but in fact, there there was no real
plan to send people to Mars.
So then, uh, you know, I've come, this
is such a long story, so I don't want to
take up too much time here, but um, the
I think we're all listening with wrapped
attention. So, so I was actually I was
on the Long Island Expressway with my
friend at Dear Resi. were like u house
classmates in college and and D was
asking me what I'm what we're going to
do what am I going to do after PayPal
and I was like it's like I don't know I
guess maybe I'd like to do something
philanthropic in space because I didn't
think I could actually do anything
commercial in space because that seemed
like the purview of nations
um so um but you know I'm kind of
curious as to when we're going to send
people to Mars and and that's when I was
like oh it's not on the website and I
started digging on not there's nothing
on the NASA website so then I started
digging in And um and uh and I'm I'm I'm
definitely summarizing a lot here, but
um I I I uh my first idea was to do a
philanthropic mission to Mars called
Life to Mars, where would we send a a
small greenhouse with sea and dehydrated
nutrient gel, land that on Mars and
grow, you know, hydrate the gel, and
then you'd have this this great sort of
money shot of green plants on a red
background.
Um,
for the longest time I, by the way, I
didn't realize money shot I think is a
porn reference. But, uh,
but anyway, the point is that that would
be the great shot of green plants on a
red background and to try to inspire uh,
you know, NASA and the public to to send
astronauts to to Mars. As I learned
more, I I came to realize Oh, and along
the way, by the way, I went to Russia in
like 2001 and 2002 to buy ICBMs,
which is like that's an adventure. You
know, you go and meet with Russian high
command and say, "I'd like to buy some
ICBMs." Um, this was to get to space.
Yeah.
Not to not to nuke anyone, but
but they had they had to uh as a result
of arms reduction talks, they had to
actually destroy a bunch of their their
big nuclear missiles.
So I was like, well, how about if we
take two of those, you know, minus the
nuke, um add an additional uh upper
stage for for Mars. Um, but it was kind
of trippy, you know, being in Moscow in
what 2001 negotiating with like the
Russian military to buy ICVMs. Like
that's crazy.
Um, and but they they kept also like
raising the price on me so that so like
literally it's kind of like the opposite
of what a negotiation should should do.
So I was like, man, these things are
getting really expensive. and and then I
I came to realize that actually the
problem was not that there was
insufficient will to go to Mars but that
there was no way to do so without
breaking the budget you know even
breaking the NASA budget so that's where
I decided to start SpaceX SpaceX to uh
advance rocket technology to the point
where we could send people to Mars um
and uh that was in 2002 so that wasn't
you know you didn't start out uh wanting
to start a business. You wanted to start
just something that was interesting to
you that you thought humanity needed and
then as you sort of, you know, like a
cat pulling on, you know, a a string, it
just sort of the ball sort of unravels
and it turns out this is could be a very
profitable business.
I mean, it it is now, but it um there I
there been no prior example of really a
rocket startup succeeding. There have
been various attempts to do commercial
rocket companies and they all all
failed. So um again with with SpaceX
starting SpaceX was uh really from the
standpoint of like I I think there's
like a less than 10% chance of being
successful maybe 1% I don't know. Um but
um but if if if a startup doesn't do
something to advance uh rocket
technology, it's definitely not coming
from from the big defense contractors
because they just impeded match to the
government and the government just wants
to do very conventional things. So
there's it's either coming from a
startup or it's not happening at all.
So, so like a small chance of success is
better than no chance of success and and
so that yeah, so SpaceX
u I started that in in mid mid 2002
expecting to fail. I like I said
probably 90% chance of failing and even
like when recruiting people I didn't
like try to you know make out that it
would I said we're probably going to
die. Uh but uh 12 chance we might not
die and if uh but this is the only way
to get people to Mars and advance the
state-of-the-art and um
and then uh I ended up being chief
engineer of the rocket uh not because I
wanted to but because I couldn't hire
anyone who was good. So like none of the
good sort of chief engineers would join
because they're like this is too risky.
You were going to die. And uh so then I
ended up being chief engineer of the
rocket. And you know the first three
flights did fail. So it's a bit of a
learning exercise there. And um fourth
one fortunately worked. But if the
fourth one hadn't worked uh I had no
money left and that would have been it
would have been curtains. So it was a
pretty close thing. If if the fourth
launch of Falcon not work, it would have
been just curtains and we would have
just been joined the graveyard of prior
rocket startups. So like like my
estimate of success was not far off. Um
we just we made it by the skin of our
teeth. Um
and um Tesla was happening sort of
simultaneously. Um like 2008 was a rough
year. Uh because at mid 2008 uh or
called summer 2008 um the third the
third launch of SpaceX had failed our
third failure in a row. Uh the Tesla
financing round had failed. And so Tesla
was going bankrupt fast. Um
it was just uh it's like man this is
grim.
Uh this is this is going to be
a a tale of warning of an exercise in
hubris. Probably throughout that period
a lot of people were saying you know
Elon is a software guy. Why is he
working on hardware? Why would Yeah. Why
would he choose to work on this? Right.
100%. So you can look at the like the
because there still you know the press
of that time is still online. You could
just search it and and they kept calling
me internet guy. Um so like internet guy
aka fool is attempting to build a rocket
company. Um so um you know um
that we got ridiculed quite a lot. Um,
and it does sound pretty absurd like
internet guy starts rocket company
doesn't sound like a recipe for success
frankly. So I don't hold it against
them. I was like, yeah, you know, it
admittedly it does sound improbable and
I agree that it's improbable. Um,
but fortunately the fourth launch worked
and um and uh and and NASA awarded us a
a contract to resupply the space
station. Uh, and I think that was like
maybe
I don't know December
22nd or it was it was like right before
Christmas. Um, because even the fourth
launch working wasn't enough to succeed.
It NASA also needed we also needed a big
contract to keep us alive. So, um, so I
got I got that call from like the the
NASA NASA team and I literally they said
we're we're awarding you one of the
contracts to resupply the space station.
And I like literally blurted out, "I
love you guys." Which is not normally,
you know, what they hear. Um cuz it's
usually pretty, you know, sober, but I
was like, "Man, this is a company
saver." And then, uh, we closed the the
Tesla financing round on the last hour
of the last day that it was possible,
which was 6 p.m. December 24th, 2008.
Um, we would have bounced payroll two
days after Christmas if that round
hadn't hadn't closed.
So that was a nerve-wracking end of
2008. That's for sure. I guess from your
PayPal and Zip 2 experience, jumping
into these hardcore hardware startups,
you it feels like one of the through
lines was being able to find and
eventually attract the smartest possible
people in those particular fields. You
know, what what would I mean the people
in this room like some of the most of
the people here I don't think have even
managed a single person yet. They're
just starting their careers. What would
you tell to, you know, the Elon who's
never had to do that yet? I I generally
think to try to try to be as useful as
possible. It's it may sound try, but
it's it's so hard to be useful,
especially to be useful to a lot of
people. Uh where say the area under the
curve of total utility is like how much
how useful have you been to your fellow
human beings times how many people? Um
it like it's almost like like the
physics definition of true work. It's
incredibly difficult to do that. And I
think if you aspire to do true work um
your your your probability of success is
much higher. Um like like don't aspire
to glory aspire to work. How can you
tell that it's true work? Like is it
external? Is it like what happens with
other people or you know what the
product does for people like what you
know what is that for you when you're
looking for people to come work for you?
Like what you know what's the salient
thing that you look for or if they're
you know that's a different question. I
guess it's I mean in terms of of of your
end product you just have to say like
well if this thing is successful how
useful will it be to how many people and
um that that's that's what I mean and
and then you you do whatever you know
whether you're CEO or or any role in a
startup you do whatever it takes to
succeed like and and just and just
always be smash smashing your ego like
like internalize responsibility
um like a major failure mode is when ego
ability ratio um is double greater than
sign one you know uh like if you if your
ego to ability ratio is gets too high
then you're you're you're going to
basically break the feedback loop to
reality u and in in AI terms your your
you'll break your RL loop so you you
want you don't want to break your you
want to have a strong RL loop which
means internalizing responsibility and
minimizing ego and you do whatever the
task is no matter whether it's you grand
or humble. So, I mean, that's kind of
like why I actually I prefer the term
like engineering as opposed to research.
I prefer the term and and I I don't I
actually don't want to call XAI a lab. I
just want to be a company.
um
like it's like whatever the whatever the
simplest um most straightforward
uh ideally lowest ego terms are those
are generally a good way to go. Um to
you you want to just close the loop on
reality hard. Um that's that's a that's
a super big deal. I think everyone in
this room is uh really looks up to
everything you've done around being sort
of a paragon of first principles and you
know thinking about the stuff you've
done um how do you actually determine
your reality because that seems like a
pretty big part of it like other people
people who have never made anything
non-engineers
uh sometimes journalists at time who've
never done anything like they will
criticize you but then clearly you have
another set of people who are builders
who have very high you know sort of area
under the curve who are in your circle
like you know how should people approach
that like what has worked for you and
what would you pass on like you know to
to X to your children like you know what
do you tell them when you're like you
need to make your way in this world here
you know here's how to construct a
reality that is predictive from first
principles well the the tools of physics
are incredibly helpful
uh to to um understand and make progress
in any field. Um the first principles
mean just obviously just means you know
break things down to the fundamental
aimatic elements that are most likely to
be true and then reason up from there as
cogently as possible as opposed to
reasoning by analysis or metaphor. Um
and then you just simple things like
like thinking in the limit like if you
extrapolate you know minimize this thing
or maximize that thing thinking in the
limit is is very very helpful. Um I use
all the tools of physics. Um they apply
to any field.
Um this is like a superpower actually.
Um so you can take say take take for
example like rockets. You can say well
how how much should a rocket rocket
cost? Um the typical approach to how to
that people would take to how much
rocket should cost is they would look
historically at what the cost of rockets
are and assume that any new rocket must
be somewhat similar to the prior cost of
rockets. A first principles approach
would be you you look at the materials
that the rocket is comprised of. So if
that's aluminum, uh copper, carbon
fiber, uh steel, whatever the case may
be, um and say what what how much does
that rocket weigh and and and what are
the constituent elements and how much do
they weigh? What is the material price
per kilogram of those constituent
elements? And that sets the actual floor
on what a rocket uh can cost. It's it
can asmtoically approach the cost of the
raw materials. Um and then you realize
oh actually a rocket the raw materials
of a rocket are only maybe one or 2% of
of the historical cost of a rocket. So
the manufacturing must necessarily be
very inefficient um if the if the raw
material cost is only 1 or 2%. That
would be a first first principles
analysis of the potential for the cost
for cost optimization of a rocket. And
that's before you get to reusability.
You know to give an AI sort of AI
example I guess uh last year where for
XEI when we were trying to build a a
training supercluster
uh we we we went to the various
suppliers to ask
said this was beginning of last year
that we needed 100,000 H100s to be able
to train coherently. Um and uh their
estimates for how long it would take to
complete that were 18 to 24 months. It's
like well we need to get that done in 6
months. So then um or we won't be
competitive. So so then uh if you break
that down what well what are the things
you need? Well, you need a building, you
need power, you need cooling.
Um we didn't have enough time to build a
building from scratch. So we had to find
an existing building. So, we found a a
factory that was no longer in use in
Memphis that used to build Electrolux
products. Um, but then the the input
power was 15 megawatts and we needed 150
megawatt. So, uh we we um rented
generators and had generators on one
side of the building and then we have to
have cooling. So, we rented about a
quarter of the mobile cooling capacity
of the US and put the the chillers on
the other side of the building.
uh that didn't fully solve the problem
because the voltage v the power
variations during training um are are
very g very big. So you can have power
can drop by 50% in 100 milliseconds
which the generators can't keep up with.
So then we combi we added Tesla mega
packs and modified the software in the
mega packs to be able to to smooth out
the uh the power variation during the
training run. Um, and then there were
there were a bunch of network networking
challenges. Um, because the networking
cables if you're trying to make 100,000
GPUs train coherently are very very
challenging. Um, almost it sounds like
uh almost any of those things you
mentioned uh I could imagine someone
telling you very directly, no, you can't
have that, you can't have that power,
you can't have this. Uh, and it sounds
like one of the salient pieces of first
principles thinking is actually let's
ask why. let's, you know, figure that
out and actually let's challenge the
person across the table and if they if I
don't get an answer that I feel good
about, I'm gonna, you know, not allow
that to be I'm not going to let that
know to stand. Is that I mean, that
feels like something that, you know,
everyone, if someone were to try to do
what you're doing in hardware, hardware
seems to uniquely need this. In
software, we have lots of, you know,
fluff and things that, you know, it's
like we can add more CPUs to that. it'll
be fine. But in hardware, it's it's just
not going to work. I think these general
principles of first principle thinking
apply to software and hardware apply to
anything really. Um I'm just using kind
of a hardware example um of of how we
were told something is impossible, but
once we broke it down into the
constituent elements of we need a
building, we need power, we need
cooling, we need uh we we need power
smoothing and then and then we could
solve those constituent elements. Um but
it it was and then we and then we just
ran the the networking operation to to
do all the cabling everything um in four
shifts 247 and and I was like sleeping
in the data center and also doing
cabling myself. Um and and there were a
lot of other issues to solve. Um you
know nobody had done a training run with
100,000
um H100s training coherently last year.
May maybe it's been done this year. I
don't know.
Um and then and then we ended up
doubling that uh to 200,000. And so now
we we've got 150,000 H100s, 50K H200s,
and 30K GB200s
um in the in the Memphis uh training
center. And we're about to bring 110,000
GB200s online um at a second data center
also in the Memphis area. Is it your
view that you know uh pre-training is
still working and you know larger the
scaling laws still hold and whoever wins
this race will have basically the
biggest smartest possible model that you
could distill?
Well, there's other various elements
that
um beside competitiveness for for large
AI um there's there's for sure the the
talent of the people matter. Um the
scale of the hardware matters and how
well you able to bring that hardware to
bear. So you can't just order a whole
bunch of GPUs and they they don't you
can't just plug them in. So you've got
to you've got to get a lot of GPUs and
have them um train trained coherently
and stably. Um then it's like what
unique access to data do you have? I
guess distribution matters to some
degree as well like how do people get
exposed to your AI? Those are those are
critical factors for if it's going to be
like a large foundation model that's
competitive. Um
um you know as um as many have said I
think my friend I sky said uh you know
we've kind of run out of pre-training
data of human generated pre like human
generated data you run out of tokens
pretty fast um of certainly of high
quality tokens
and um
and then you and you have to do
a lot of uh you you need to essentially
create synthetic data
um and and be able to accurately judge
the synthetic data that you're creating
to verify like is this real synthetic
data or is it an hallucination that
doesn't actually match reality. Um so
achieving grounding in reality is is is
tricky but but we we are at the stage
where
there's more effort put into synthetic
data. Um and like right now we're we're
training Grock 3.5 which is a a heavy
focus on reasoning. Going back to your
physics point, uh what I heard for
reasoning is that uh hard science
particularly physics textbooks are very
useful for reasoning whereas um I think
researchers have told me that social
science is totally useless for
reasoning.
Uh yes, that's probably true. Um so yeah
um you know something that's going to be
very important in the future is um
combining deep AI uh in the the data
center or supercluster with robotics.
Uh so that uh you know things like like
the Optimus humanoid robot and um yeah
Optimus is awesome. There's going to be
so many humanoid robots and and robots
of all robots of all sizes and shapes,
but my prediction is that there will be
more humanoid robots by far than all
other robots combined by maybe an order
of magnitude like a a big difference. Um
and um is it true that you you're
planning a robot army of a sort? Whether
we do it or or or you know whether Tesla
does it, you know, Tesla works closely
with XAI. Um,
like you've seen how many humanoid robot
startups are there. Like it's like I
think Jensen Bong was on stage with a
lot with a massive number of robots, you
know, robots from different companies. I
think there was like dozen different
humanoid robots.
So, I mean, I guess, you know, part of
what I've been fighting and maybe what
has slowed me down somewhat is that I'm
a I'm a little I don't want I don't want
to make Terminator real, you know. So,
I've been sort of I guess at least until
recent years dragging my feet on on AI
and and humanoid robotics.
And then I sort of come to the realiz
realization it's it's happening whether
I do it or not. So, you got really two
choices. Particip you could either be a
spectator or a participant. And so,
like, well, I guess I'd rather be a
participant than a spectator.
Um so now it's you know pedal to the
metal on humanoid robots and um
digital super intelligence. So I guess
you know there's a third thing that uh
everyone has heard you talk a lot about
that I'm really a big fan of you know
becoming a multilanetary species. Where
does this fit? You know this is all you
know not not just a 10 or 20 year thing
maybe a hundredyear thing like it's a
mult you know many many generations for
humanity kind of thing. You know
how do you think about it? There's, you
know, AI, obviously, there's embodied
robotics, and then there's being a
multip multilanetary species. Does
everything sort of feed into that last
point or, you know, what what are you
driven by right now for the next 10, 20,
and 100 years? Jeez, 100 years, man. I
hope civilization's around in 100 years.
If if it is around, it's going to look
very different from civilization today.
Um, I mean, I'd predict that there's
going to be
at least five times as many humanoid
robots as there are humans, maybe 10
times.
Um,
and one way to look at the progress of
civilization is percentage completion
kadesv. So, if you're, you know,
cautious of scale one, you've um, you've
harnessed all the energy of a planet.
Now in in my opinion we've only uh
harnessed maybe 1 or 2% of uh earth's
energy. Uh so we've got a long way to go
to the cev scale one. Uh then car shift
2 you've harnessed all the energy of a
sun. Uh which would be I don't know a
billion times more energy than earth
maybe closer to a trillion. Um and then
kv 3 would be all the energy of a galaxy
pretty far from that.
So
we're at the very very early stage of
the intelligence big bang. I I I hope I
hope we're on the in terms of being
multilanetary like I think
I think we'll have enough mass
transferred to Mars within like roughly
30 years to make Mars self- sustaining
such that Mars can continue to grow and
prosper even if the resupply ships from
Earth stop coming. Um and that that
greatly increases the probable lifespan
of civilization or or consciousness or
intelligence both biological and
digital.
Um so that's why I think it's important
to become a multilanet species. And I'm
somewhat troubled by the foamy paradox
like why have we not seen any aliens?
And it could be because intelligence is
incredibly rare. Um and maybe we're the
only ones in this galaxy. Um in which
case the intelligence of consciousness
is this like tiny candle in a vast
darkness and we should do everything
possible to ensure the tiny candle
candle does not go out and being a
multilanet species or making
consciousness multilanetary
uh greatly improves the probable
lifespan of civilization and it's it's
it's the next step before going to other
star systems. Um once you once you at
least have two planets, then you've got
a forcing function for the improvement
of space travel. Um and um and that that
ultimately is what will lead to
uh consciousness expanding to the stars.
It could be that um the Fermy paradox
dictates once you get to some level of
technology, you destroy yourself. How do
we say ourselves? How do we actually
what would you prescribe to I mean a
room full of engineers like what can we
do to prevent that from happening? Yeah.
How do we avoid the great filters? One
of the great filters would obviously be
global thermonuclear war. Uh
so we should try to avoid that. Um, I
guess building benign AI robots that AI
that loves humanity and um,
you know, robots that are helpful. Um,
something that I think is uh, extremely
important in building AI is is a very
rigorous adherence to truth even if that
truth is politically incorrect.
Um I my intuition for what could make AI
very dangerous is if um if you force AI
to believe things that are not true. How
do you think about you know there's sort
of this argument for open uh open for
safety versus closed for competitive
edge. I mean I think the great thing is
you have a competitive model. Many other
people also have competitive models. And
in that sense, you know, we're sort of
off of maybe the worst timeline that I'd
be worried about is, you know, there's
fast takeoff and it's only in one
person's hands. You know, that might,
you know, sort of collapse uh a lot of
things. Whereas now we have choice,
which is great. How do you think about
this? Yeah, I do think there will be
several
deep intelligences, may maybe at least
five.
Um
maybe as much as 10.
Um,
I'm not sure that there's going to be
hundreds, but it's probably close to
like maybe there'll be like 10 or
something like that. Um, of which maybe
four will be in the US.
Um,
so
I I don't think it's going to be any one
AI that that has a runaway
capability. Um
but but yeah se several deep
intelligences. What will these deep deep
intelligences actually be doing? Will it
be scientific research or trying to hack
each other?
Probably all of the above.
Um
I mean hopefully they will discover new
physics and I think they will very
they're they're definitely going to
invent new technologies.
Um
like I think I think we're quite close
to digital super intelligence.
It may happen this year and if it
doesn't happen this year, next year for
sure a digital super intelligence
defined as smarter than any human at
anything. Well, so how do we direct that
to sort of super abundance? You know, we
have we could have robotic labor, we
have cheap energy, intelligence on
demand. you know, is that sort of the
white pill? Like where do you sit on the
spectrum? And are there tangible things
that you would encourage everyone here
to be working on to make that white pill
actually reality?
I think I think it most likely will be a
good outcome. Um I I guess I'd sort of
agree with Jeff Hinton that maybe it's a
10 to 20% chance of annihilation. Uh but
look on the bright side, that's 80 to
90% probability of a great outcome. Um,
so
yeah, I can't emphasize this enough. A
rigorous adherence to truth
uh is is the most important thing for AI
safet safety. Um,
and obviously empathy for uh humanity
and life as we know it. We haven't uh
talked about Neurolink and uh at all
yet, but I'm curious, you know, you're
working on closing the input and output
gap between humans and machines. Uh how
critical is that to AGI ASI? And you
know, once that link is made, can we not
only read but also write the neural link
is not necessary to solve um digital
super intelligence. Uh that'll happen
before neural link is at scale. Uh but
uh what Nurolink can effectively do is
solve the um the input output bandwidth
constraints. Especially our output con
bandwidth is very low. The the out the
the sustained output of a human over the
course of a day is less than one bit per
second. So there, you know, 86,400
seconds in a day. Um and is extremely
rare for a human to output more than
that number of symbols per day. So
um certainly for several days in a row.
Uh so you you really um with with a with
a neural link interface you can
massively increase your output bandwidth
and your input bandwidth. Um input being
right to you you have to do write
operations to the brain. Um we um we
have now five humans who have received
the uh the kind of the read uh input
where it's reading signals. And you've
got people with with ALS who um really
have no they're tetroplegics, but they
they can now communicate at with with at
um similar bandwidth to a human with a
fully functioning body um and control
their computer and phone um which is
pretty cool. And then um I think in the
next 6 to 12 months we'll be doing our
first implants for vision where even if
somebody's completely blind um uh we we
can write directly to um the uh the
visual cortex um and and we've had that
working in monkeys actually. I think one
of our monkeys now has had a visual
implant for three years and um at first
it'll be relatively fairly low
resolution but long term you would have
very high resolution and be able to see
multisspectral
wavelengths. So uh you could see an
infrared ultraviolet radar like a
superpower situation like at at at some
point the cybernetic implants wouldn't
would not simply be correcting things
that went wrong but uh augmenting human
capabilities dramatically
augmenting augmenting intelligence and
senses and bandwidth uh dramatically and
that's that's going to happen at some
point. Um
but digital super intelligence will
happen well before that
at least if we have a a neural link we
might we'll be able to appreciate the
the AI better I guess one of the
limiting reagents to all of your efforts
across all of these different domains is
access to the smartest possible people.
Um, yes. But, you know, sort of
simultaneous to that we have, you know,
the rocks can talk and reason and, you
know, they're maybe 130 IQ now and
they're probably going to be super
intelligent soon. Uh, how do you
reconcile those two things? Like what's
going to happen in you know 5 10 years
and what should the people in this room
do to uh make sure that, you know,
they're the ones who are creating
instead of maybe below the API line?
Well, they call it the singularity for a
reason because we don't know what's
going to happen in in the not that far
future. The percentage of intelligence
that is human will be quite small. At
some point, the collective sum of human
intelligence will be less than 1% of all
intelligence.
Um
and if if things get to a cauter ship
level two
um we're talking about
human intelligence even assuming a
significant increase in human population
and intelligence augmentation like
massive intelligence augmentation where
like everyone has an IQ of a thousand
type of thing. Um even in that
circumstance uh collective human
intelligence will be probably 1
billionth that of uh digital
intelligence. Anyway, where's the
biological bootloader for digital super
intelligence? I guess just to end off
was I he was like was I a good
bootloader. Where do we go? How do we go
from here? I mean I mean all of this is
pretty wild sci-fi stuff that also could
be built by the people in this room.
You know, if you do you have a closing
thought for the smartest technical
people of this generation right now,
what should they be doing? What should
they what should they be working on?
What should they be thinking about, you
know, tonight as they go to dinner?
Well,
I as I started off with, I think if
you're doing something useful, that's
great. Um,
if you just just try to be as useful as
possible to your fellow human beings and
that that then you're doing something
good. Um, I keep harping on this like
focus on super truthful AI that that's
the most important thing for AI safety.
Um,
you know, obviously if you know um
anyone's interested in working at XAI, I
mean, please please let us know. Um
we're aiming to make gro um the
maximally truth seeeking AI. Um and uh I
think that's a very important thing. Um
hopefully we can understand the nature
of the universe. That that's really I
guess what AI can hopefully tell us.
Maybe AI AI can maybe tell us where are
the aliens and what you know how did the
universe really start? How will it end?
What are the questions that we don't
know that we should ask?
And um
are we in a simulation or what level of
simulation are we in?
Well, I think we're going to find out.
An NPC.
Elon, thank you so much for joining us.
Everyone, please give it up for Elon
Musk.